book of Joshua
after the death of Moses the servant of
the Lord it came to pass that the Lord
spoke to Joshua the son of nun Moses
assistant Moses my servant is dead now
therefore arise go over this Jordan you
and all this people to the land which I
am giving to them the children of Israel
every place that the sole of your foot
will tread upon I have given you as I
said to Moses from the wilderness and
this Lebanon as far as the great river
the river Euphrates all the land of the
Hittites and to the Great Sea toward the
going down of the Sun shall be your
territory no man shall be able to stand
before you all the days of your life as
I was with Moses so I will be with you I
will not leave you nor forsake you be
strong and of good courage for to this
people you shall divide as an
inheritance the land which I swore to
their fathers to give them only be
strong and very courageous that you may
observe to do according to all the law
which Moses my servant come
do not turn from it to the right hand or
to the left that you may prosper
wherever you go this book of the law
shall not depart from your mouth but you
shall meditate in it day and night that
you may observe to do according to all
that is written in it for then you will
make your way prosperous and then you
will have good success have I not
commanded you be strong and of good
courage do not be afraid nor be dismayed
for the Lord your God is with you
wherever you go then Joshua commanded
the offices of the people pass through
the camp and command the people saying
prepare provisions for yourselves for
within three days you will cross over
this Jordan to go in to possess the land
which the Lord your God is giving you to
possess and to the rubra nights the
gadites and half the tribe of manasseh
joshua spoke remember the word which
Moses the servant of the lord commanded
you saying the Lord your God is giving
you rest and is giving you this land
your wives your little ones and your
livestock shall remain in the land which
Moses gave you on this side of the
Jordan but you shall pass before your
brethren armed all your mighty men of
valor and help them until the Lord has
given your brethren rest as he gave you
and they also have taken possession of
the land which the Lord your God is
giving them then you shall return to the
land of your possession and enjoy it
which Moses the Lord's servant gave you
on this side of the Jordan toward the
sunrise survey answered Joshua
all that you command us we will do and
wherever you send us we will go just as
we heeded Moses and all things so we
will yield you only the Lord your God be
with you as he was with Moses whoever
rebels against your command and does not
heed your words in all that you command
him shall be put to death only be strong
and of good courage
you